AAMusicPlayer 
=============

DESCRIPTION:
------------

AAMusicPlayer demonstrates all the basic functionalities of a media player with a GUI based on the Qt5 framework, platform support on both Linux Ubuntu and Mac OSX, and media support on mp3.



FEATURE IMPLEMENTED:
--------------------

> Full playlist support
> Multiple play controls
> Library list support
> Local search and import
> Repeat one, loop and shuffle
> Cross-platform support



DETAILS:
--------

> PLAYBACK:

Qt5 built-in MediaPlayer widget is used to handle the decoding of the media files. 

-- Play/Pause button starts or pause the playback of the curent media file. 
-- Next and Back buttons skip to the next or previous songs in the playlist. 
-- Volumn button and the slider besides it mutes, raises or decreases the volumn. 
-- Stop button ceases the current media file.
-- slider shows the progress of the playback, which could be manually dragged to advance/rewind the song.
 

> PLAYLIST:

The playlist is a collection of media files that we are currently playing. The playlist area has columns to display the song's Name, Artist, Album and Length information, based on the mp3 file's metadata. Five buttons provide different playlist options including Repeat, Loop, Shuffle, Save and Delete the playlist. The name of the playlist is also shown.

1) Under the playlist, the song's information (except the Length) could be edited (by pressing F2) and auto saved to the metadata (by clicking "enter/return").

2) The width of each column in the playlist (except the "Title" column) could be automatically stretched with the musicplayer's interface. And the width of those three columns are equally divided.

3) The song in the playlist could be played by either double clicking it or pressing the play/pause button. If more than one songs are in the playlist, the first song will be played after the play/pause button is clicked.

4) The user could switch songs' order in the playlist by dragging them into the specific position.

5) The shuffle, repeat and loop buttons could be pressed simultaneously, and their functionalities would be implemented at the same time.
   --If the "Repeat" and the "Loop" buttons were both clicked, the player would keep repeating one song until the user press the next/back button. If the last song of the playlist is current playing, the first song will be played after pressing the "next" button; and if the first song of the playlist is playing, the last song will be played after pressing the "back" button.
   --If all three buttons are being selected, one song will keep playing until the user press the next/back button, the playlist would randomly pick another song. And it would not be stopped even if the first/last song in the playlist is chosen.


> LIBRARY:

The library area allows the user to navigate the file-system to add folders/files to the collection. Once a folder/file is selected, the mp3 files contained will be processed for the metadata and added to the area. The Library will display the songs in artist items (in alphabetic order), which when expanded will show the individual song names. Other metadata information of the song is hidden for the further use.

1) Open button inserts a file to the library and the playlist as well. File button imports a folder to the library.

2) If one song's metadata does not indicate any information of its Title, Artist, and/or Album, the library will put it into the "Unknown" list.

3) Once the user searched in one directory, the path of that directory would be saved, which will reach to that path directly when the user open the folder next time.

4) One song could be inserted into the playlist by double clicking it in the library. Multiple songs could be added by selecting and dragging them into the playlist. All the songs from one artist could be put into the playlist by only double clicking that artist item in the library.

5) After the information of one song was changed in the playlist by the user, the Library would automatically update the whole metadata.
 

> TITLE:

The title area shows the infomation of the current song that the musicplayer is playing (The t\
itle, album, and artist).

1) The central title displays "AAMusicPlayer" after the usr open it. If there's no song in the playlist, it shows "AAMusicPlayer" again.



REQUIRED PACKAGES:
------------------

1) qt-default media player codec. 
   On Ubuntu, follow the steps from qt-project.org/wiki/Install_Qt_5_on_Ubuntu. 
   On Mac OSX, follow the steps form qt-project.org/doc/qt-5/macosx.html.

2) taglib 1.9.1 (latest version). 
   On OSX, xcode developer tools, cmake and homebrew should be installed before. More information could be found from (taglib.github.io).
   
3) sqlite3

-- Make restriction to allow only one instance to run for database consistency.
